It isn’t easy to define the scope of intellectual property rights.
This time, we’re talking about car designs.
It’s a pretty good topic.
Yes. As I studied, I noticed more and more things.
It means I’m learning a little more, right?
That’s right. Now, let me explain.
Intellectual property rights allow people
to protect the property information
created by creative activities from unfair imitation.
For creations, the interests of the creators are protected.
However, I have heard similar explanations about copyright.
Is this different from copyright?
Copyright is one of the intellectual property rights
under such an idea.
In addition to copyright, there are many other types
of intellectual property rights.
There are so many! I wonder if I can remember them all.
But there are some words I’ve heard before,
like patent and trademark.
That’s right. Intellectual property rights are rights related to
information from human intellectual activities, etc.,
related to various parts of society.
I’m sure you’ve heard of many of them before
Patents, for example, relate to inventions.
Anyone with a technical idea to make something is called
an inventor, right?
By applying the concept that a person thought of,
the person can obtain exclusive patents and profit
from the invention.
Copyright is similar,
but the subject matter and procedures are different.
Copyright applies to things that are expressed, right?
Copyright does not protect ideas, nor is there a need for
application procedures. I see, it’s different.
That’s right. Copyright occurs at the moment copyrighted work
is created without any procedures.
This is called an automatic protection system.
Since there is no registration or examination,
people coincidently can create works similar
to other people’s work.
In such a case, it does not constitute a copyright infringement,
and both parties will have copyright.
On the other hand, industrial property rights, such as patent,
design, and trademark rights,
unlike copyright, arise when registered with the Patent Office.
Trademark rights cover names, figures, symbols, etc.,
used by companies and other businesses to distinguish their
products and services from those offered by different firms.
This includes company names, product names, logos, etc.
I see. Indeed, we don’t want people to copy our corporate logos.
What happens to car designs?
Car designs are covered by design rights.
A design right is the right to use a new design exclusively
by registering for mass-produced goods.
This protects the advantages of superior design products
and prevents losing profits to other companies creating products
that imitate their designs.
The design of a car is essential to its appeal.
I know exactly what you mean
because I liked the design and wanted it, too.
That’s right. Besides cars, fashion designs are also subject to
such design rights.
Fashion is all about design! It’s fun to choose♪
In a somewhat different way, agriculture also has intellectual
property rights.
Agriculture? You mean agricultural products,
such as vegetables and fruits, right?
I thought such things were created naturally and had nothing
to do with intellectual property rights.
Surprising right? But there are many different kinds and
varieties of agricultural products.
New varieties are created by combining characteristics
that are useful to people,
such as taste, large harvests, and beautiful flowers.
Ah, you mean breeding.
That’s right. The right of breeders is the intellectual property
of a person
who has created a new variety of plants in this way.
New flowers and fruits are treated as the intellectual property
of those who create and register them.
Speaking of which, we have heard in the news
that the legislation helps protect brands because popular high-quality grapes and cherries are being grown overseas without permission,
and are being imported.
When I think about it, I feel that new varieties of vegetables
and fruits are an asset
not only to the people who grow the crops but also to the
agriculture industry and society as a whole.
The Law needs to protect them with legislation.
In addition, the Unfair Competition Prevention Act, which aims to
ensure fair competition among companies and other businesses,
protects trade secrets, such as business know-how and customer
lists,
and regulates the use of names and designs similar to those of
different companies.
I see. The idea of protecting information, such as things made by
someone or labels used in business activities as property,
is a common concept not only for copyright but also for other
intellectual property rights.
By the way Naoya, I heard you’re working hard to buy a car,
but do you think you’ll be able to buy it?
Ah, well, it’s an expensive car, so I don’t know when I can...
I have to earn some money.
How do you make money? By patenting an invention?
By writing a best-selling book?
Hmm...maybe I’ll buy a lottery ticket...